## Solving the housing crisis

Most cities are undergoing a housing crisis at the moment. Rents and house prices are increasing, much faster than people's wages. Most governments respond to this with the following measures

-- Freeze rents

-- Tax on investment properties

-- First home buyers payments

These policies subsidise demand, which increases housing costs, or discourages increasing supply, which also increases housing costs. What needs to happen is to increase supply, i.e. build more housing.

### My proposals ###

-- Remove heritage laws. If you like old buildings, then buy them. Don't impose restriction on other people because you like the charcter and feel of a bygone era. Alternatively move to some country town where they haven't updated their buildings. Why haven't they updated them? Becuase no one wants to live there. 

-- Rezone areas around cities for higher density. This provides more housing where people want to live.

-- Increase immigration for skilled trades. Labour is a major cost component for house building, and with low unemployment there are more jobs than people available to work. Increasing immigration for skilled trades lowers the cost of building new homes.

-- Remove stamp duty and introduce land tax. Stamp duty stops people from moving houses, it increases the hurdle of buying a house to upsize or downsize into. People end up living in housing not suitable for their needs. Stamp duty is a tax on mobility — on people moving location. If we want an economy that's dynamic and vibrant, we need to remove taxes on mobility.

### More reasons for a land tax ###

-- There is a fixed supply of land, taxing it doesn't decrease supply.

-- A land tax is a wealth tax, people who have large or expensive land are taxed more than people with small or cheap land. 

-- It is simple to tax, you can't hide land, you can't move it offshore. 

-- A land tax creates the incentive to better use land. A land tax stops land speculation, people can't just sit on a piece of land without consqeuence.

-- Land taxes are on the unimproved value of the land, not the property values. This means that if you make improvements on the land you get all the benefits. But if the land value improves, e.g there is more public transport or a hospital is built nearby, the tax increases. This is fair as the land owner didn't build the hospital or the public transport, they shouldn't get the gains. Most homeowners in cities undergoing a housing crises have seen their house increase in value over the past few decades, but they did nothing to earn it. Their propoerty isn't so expensive because they have taken immaculate care of it, or their rennovations are top notch. There are plenty of dumps going for millions of dollars that show it's the location that drives the price of a house sale. The price has increased becuase the city they live in is very desirable, and their aren't enough houses being built
